feat(http): Add pages for Service Workers (#37230)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/service-worker-allowed/index.md

---
title: Service-Worker-Allowed
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Service-Worker-Allowed
page-type: http-header
browser-compat: http.headers.Service-Worker-Allowed
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The HTTP **`Service-Worker-Allowed`** {{Glossary("response header")}} is used to broaden the path restriction for a service worker's default `scope`.

By default, the [`scope`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ServiceWorkerContainer/register#scope) for a service worker registration is the directory where the service worker script is located.
For example, if the script `sw.js` is located in `/js/sw.js`, it can only control URLs under `/js/` by default.

> Servers can change the default maximum allowed scope by setting the `Service-Worker-Allowed` header if a service worker needs to control a broader range of URLs beyond its own directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Servers can use the `Service-Worker-Allowed` header to allow a service worker needs to control URLs outside of its own directory.
```

Author: typo fix in your suggestion, then I'll apply

> A service worker intercepts all network requests within its scope so you should avoid using overly-broad scopes unless necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A service worker intercepts all network requests within its scope, so you should avoid using overly-broad scopes unless necessary.
```

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>

>       <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>

Reviewer: Isn't https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_header_name for requests?

Author: That's true, we might want to discuss whether we want this table row on response headers at all, seeing as it's always `No` [except for Set-Cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_response_header_name).

Reviewer 2: Does anyone else agree that we should move the Forbidden XYZ lists from the the glossary into the HTTP documentation?

Author: Yes, great idea, I think it might be time to do that

      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Service-Worker-Allowed: <scope>
```

## Directives

- `<scope>`

>   - : A string representing a URL that defines a service worker's registration scope; that is, what range of URLs a service worker can control.

Reviewer: This is true, but perhaps we should capture that it is the top level directory?

```suggestion
  - : A string representing a URL that defines a service worker's registration scope; that is, a URL that defines the root path of the range of URLs that a service worker can control.
```

>   - : A string representing a URL that defines a service worker's registration scope; that is, what range of URLs a service worker can control.

Reviewer: In addition, what counts as a valid URL? Relative URLs? Absolute URLs? What if there are query parameters?

Usually these kinds of headers take either absolute or relative URLs, that query parameters are stripped along with any credentials. But sometimes the rules are different, so we should say.

## Examples

### Using Service-Worker-Allowed to broaden service worker scope

> The JavaScript example below is included in `example.com/product/index.html`, and attempts to register a service worker with a scope that applies to all resources under `example.com/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript example below is included in `example.com/product/index.html`, and attempts to [register](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ServiceWorkerContainer/register) a service worker with a scope that applies to all resources under `example.com/`.
```

```js
navigator.serviceWorker.register("./sw.js", { scope: "/" }).then(
  (registration) => {
    console.log("Install succeeded, scoped to '/'", registration);
  },
  (error) => {
    console.error(`Service worker registration failed: ${error}`);
  },
);
```

The HTTP response to the service worker's script resource request (`./sw.js`) includes the `Service-Worker-Allowed` header set to `/`:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Dec 2024 14:37:20 GMT
Service-Worker-Allowed: /

// sw.js contents…
```

If the server doesn't set the header, the service worker registration will fail, as the `scope` option (`{ scope: "/" }`) requests a scope broader than the directory where the service worker script is located (`/product/sw.js`).

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{HTTPHeader("Service-Worker")}} header
- [Service worker API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API)

> - {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration")}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [{{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration")}}](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ServiceWorkerContainer/register)
-- [Why is my service worker failing to register](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API/Using_Service_Workers#why_is_my_service_worker_failing_to_register) in _Using Service Workers_.
```
